## DHCP Theory and Implementation

DHCP stands for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol and it's purpose is to assign IPs dynamically. DHCP Implementation though has some nuance to it and having it work in your enviornment largely depends on the considerations
you would have to make. 

## DHCP: Where and How
Generally, your DHCP server would also be your DNS server and domain controller. The reason your domain controller should be your DNS server is because Active Directory works at the domain level itself - and not having a defined domain via DNS makes there no basis for DHCP. 

## DHCP: Configuration

When configuring DHCP - you have to consider several aspects of it relative to the needs of your company and enviornment as well as the configuration of your enviornment.

Anyway,  once the DHCP/DNS/AD roles requires are are Installed on Windows Server - you need to factor in the following:

IP Scope: Whats the scope of IP ranges you would want as well as the subnet mask (Assuming 1 subnet per VLAN). You would also need to decide whether you want to use an Ipv4 or Ipv6 schema. 

Default Gateway: pointing DHCP to the default gateway of your network

IP Lease: IP leases need to be set in order to set duration of the IP's validity before a renewal is required. This could be smart for like mobile laptops. It essentially amounts to almost like a resteraunt reservation. IP Addresses can be reclaimed even through IP Address Reclemation (this happens when a device chooses to not renew the lease)

IP Reservation: an IP assigned statically via MAC address - excellent for use on infrastructure such as other servers. It essentially amounts to a whitelist. 

Exclusion: Excellent for dealing with devices that already have a static IP assignment. It helps prevents duplicate IPs being in an IP reservation scope that were already signed statically to a device.

## Why does this matter?

How you structure your network determines your needs. Not having a sufficient understanding of the needs of your enviornment will make DHCP difficult and cumbersome. 
